[Music]
now I'm guessing you know that feeling
of frustration when you're about to fly
to some exotic country for an
unforgettable vacation and then suddenly
uh-oh
you see that your flight is delayed or
worse you're going to an extremely
important business meeting and a delay
in your flight ruins it now I don't know
about you but I'm kind of interested in
why this happens sometimes and although
it's never Pleasant it appears there are
pretty good reasons for delays first to
be fair about 80% of all flights are on
time that is within 15 minutes of the
scheduled time the other 20% are delayed
and it might seem like a huge number but
consider this a commercial flight is not
like hopping into a car and driving away
it's an extremely serious operation that
requires lots of coordinated work from
hundreds of people just recall how many
steps do you as a passenger need to take
to get onboard it's a wonder how flights
even take off on time at all but still I
perfectly understand how upset a delay
can make you so here are the most
frequent reasons for that number one
security it's no secret that airports
have lots of security procedures in
place and although they can sometimes
seem ridiculous like that rule where
you're only allowed small bottles in
your carry-on baggage they're necessary
but what you probably don't know is that
the passengers security check isn't the
only thing airports have to do to ensure
your safety first an airplane MUSC a
clearance to depart from its home
airport then after arrival to another
country issues have to be solved to get
clearance to depart from there once
again as you may guess all of this
requires time and delays are sometimes
inevitable to weather conditions despite
what most people think weather isn't the
top reason for flight delays it's an
important factor of course but most of
the time flights still go on time even
in bad weather
that's because modern airplane
are designed to withstand a lot of
things even thunderstorms in fact even a
direct lightning strike can't do much
harm to a plane and it happens more
often than you think however nobody
would risk hundreds of lives and an
expensive aircraft for no good reason
and weather delays do occur still they
only happen when the conditions are
completely out of the ordinary and the
risk is too high by the way it's not
only about the weather around the
airport of departure it's also the
conditions and route and around the
airport of arrival too if there's a
severe storm forecast at your
destination your flight will almost
certainly be delayed three technical
troubleshooting this one might seem the
most outrageous the airplane has a
clearance to fly the weather is perfect
but then some technical issue emerges
that hasn't been noticed until now I
mean why not earlier you see pilots run
final checks right before the flight and
if they see something's off
they call the ground crew and fix things
together if they don't succeed on time
then you see the flight delayed message
on the board or even here that you must
go back to the gate again but you know I
think you'll agree with me that it's
better if they find problems and solve
them while still on the ground for
preparations for the flight preparing an
airplane is a serious business and any
mistake here can cost much more than
just money or time usually though the
plane is ready on time and it's a rare
thing when it's not such delays are
mostly connected with things like fuel
being late or cleaning not done in due
time to name a few I know it doesn't
seem like a big deal but every small
detail matters after all it's your
safety and comfort in flight 5 waiting
for connecting passengers in their
baggage connecting flights are the most
difficult to handle for obvious reasons
there are two different airplanes that
need to adjust their schedules to each
other it gets even more complicated when
connecting flights are close in time one
must arrive
nicely on schedule not to delay the
other and still that sometimes happens
if the delay is not too big the second
flight can be held and the captain will
tell their passengers why this way
passengers from the first flight can
have some time to get on board the
second airplane on top of that there's
the issue of getting their bags from one
plane to another and that can take even
more time I'm sure you've noticed that
baggage doesn't arrive to the claim area
immediately there's at least 10 to 15
minutes of waiting before that well at
least it's understandable I guess anyone
would appreciate an airplane waiting for
them and you can find yourself in such a
situation like anyone else 6 waiting for
and loading the cargo now you might not
realize it but commercial aircraft
carried not only passengers and their
stuff but also some cargo in most cases
it's airmail
yes packages you send off to other
cities or countries are basically
delivered by passenger airplanes it can
be other things though and it may take
time for such cargo to be delivered to
the airport check and then load it onto
the aircraft
luckily delays caused by cargo are
usually not too long so you won't be
asked to return to the gate while
waiting and loading is in process still
it can take up to an hour so you'll have
to be patient 7 waiting for the crew
often the crew for your flight arrives
from another one that has just landed in
your Airport and it sometimes happens
that their previous flight is not
exactly on schedule for some reason if
this is the case then your flight might
be delayed
there's simply no crew for your airplane
flying without a pilot isn't going to
happen you know however this situation
usually only arises in local airports
well in large hubs there's always a crew
on standby waiting to be called in case
of an unexpected delay everyone knows
emergencies do occur so extra measures
are always taken in advance
eight wait overload many airplanes have
precise weight restrictions and if
they're violated the flight is not
allowed these restrictions include all
of it the weight of the passengers and
crew on board the baggage the cargo and
even the fuel weight check is performed
at the last minute so that the crew
knows how much exactly the plane is
going to weigh in the air and if it's
too much some passengers or baggage are
to be pulled off the flight that's where
a delay may happen if you worry that it
might be you at some point though don't
fret
airlines normally pull their own staff
that are traveling on such planes nine
food airplane food might not be the most
delicious thing you've ever tasted but
it must be they're all the same and it's
not cooked onboard of course it's
provided by special airline catering
services if you're at a busy airport you
just might get delayed because your
service hasn't delivered the food for
your airplane on time it sometimes
happens that caterers simply can't find
your aircraft among others and since
catering is a mandatory service on a
flight you won't take off until the food
is on board and ready to serve 10
strikes Airport employees go on strikes
almost every year and it's among the top
reasons for flight delays in Europe it's
perfectly understandable why they do
that airport staff have lots of
responsibilities and often they're
severely underpaid every time they
demand different things from more
vacation days to more humane working
conditions but the result at least for
passengers is the same dozens of flights
are delayed or even cancelled and
thousands of people don't get to their
destinations on schedule 11 airport
congestion it might seem weird but
flight traffic is getting heavier with
every passing year and airlines keep
getting in trouble with that busy hubs
are the most concern more and more
airplanes arrive and depart all at the
same time and your aircraft might have
to wait in line
a long time before finally proceeding to
the runway
usually the flight captain would just
say it out loud
dear passengers our flight is delayed
because of the heavy traffic basically
we're coming to a time when traffic jams
aren't just the car drivers problem 12
air traffic control like I just said the
number of flights keeps growing and it's
getting harder and harder to keep track
of all of them especially since the ATC
equipment is not really up-to-date
that's not an issue to worry about
though even with the old technology air
traffic control can ensure that your
flight is safe it's just that's such a
large number of flights as there is
today requires the ATC to delay some of
them in order to get a clearer picture
and avoid confusion when this happens
it's best to just patiently wait
it's your safety that's at stake and you
can't do anything about it anyway and
those are the plain facts what about you
how do you usually cope with flight
delays if you've ever experienced one
share your solutions down in the
comments hey if you learn something new
today then give this video a like and
share it with a friend but hey don't go
putting your seat back and tray table in
their full upright and locked positions
just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to watch just click on this left or
right video to check it out and remember
stay on the bright side of life